= virt

Simple to use ruby interface to libvirt.

Libvirt is located at http://libvirt.org/ruby

== Contributing

* Fork the project
* Start a feature/bugfix branch
* Commit and push until you are happy with your contribution
* Make sure to add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Please try not to mess with the Rakefile, version, or history. If you want to have your own version, or is otherwise necessary, that is fine, but please isolate to its own commit so I can cherry-pick around it.

== RDOC

for full API please visit http://rdoc.info/github/ohadlevy/virt

== Examples

=== Connectivity Options
  uri = "qemu:///system"              # libvirt running locally
  uri = "qemu:/fqdn//system"          # used for QEMU+TLS connection
  uri = "qemu+ssh:/user@fqdn//system" # used for SSH connection
  uri = "qemu+tcp:/fqdn//system"      # used for non secured tcp connection

==== Establish the connection
  conn = Virt.connect(uri)

==== get the hypervisor
  host = conn.host

==== get the list of running guests
  host.running_guests

==== get the list of stopped guests
  host.defined_guests

====or a simple hash of both
  host.guests

==== create a new guest

  guest=Virt::Guest.new({:name => "test123"})
  guest.vcpu = 2
  guest.volume.size = 10 # in GB

  guest.save
  guest.start

  puts guest.mac

  guest.shutdown     # initiate a shutdown
  guest.poweroff     # forces a shutdown
Many more options exists, make sure checkout the api/tests

==== list of host bridges
  host.interfaces # physical interfaces
  host.networks   # virtual / NAT interfaces

==== Storage

  host.storage_pools

  host.volumes



== Copyright
Copyright (c) 2011 Ohad Levy

This program and entire repository is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
